Docs for contributing to analyzers (#319)
microsoft/durabletask-dotnet: src/Analyzers/CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to DurableTask.Analyzers

This document presents guidelines on how to contribute and develop `DurableTask.Analyzers`,
a series of [Roslyn Analyzers](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/code-quality/roslyn-analyzers-overview?view=vs-2022)
that inspect Durable Task and Azure Functions code for quality, maintainability, code constraints, and other issues. 

## Requirements

- [.NET 6](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0)

## Building

If you are using Visual Studio, you can just open the main [solution file](../../Microsoft.DurableTask.sln)

> and be able to build the [project](./Analyzers.csproj). 

Reviewer: Can you double check that these links are correct? They weren't working for me.

Author: It is working for me 👍 Let's review offline.

```

You can also run unit tests from the command line using: 

```shell
dotnet test ../../test/Analyzers.Tests/
```

## Developing Roslyn Analyzers

Currently, there are 3 diagnostics [categories](./AnalyzersCategories.cs):

| Category          | Diagnostic Id Prefix | Description                                                                                                                                                                                |   |   |
|-------------------|----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---|---|
| Orchestration     | DURABLE0xxx          | Diagnostics that are reported when a [non-deterministic code constraint](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/durable/durable-functions-code-constraints?tabs=csharp) occurs. |   |   |
| Attribute Binding | DURABLE1xxx          | A specific category that only affects Azure Durable Functions. It groups diagnostics that check whether the right C# Attribute is being used with the right type.                          |   |   |

> | Activity          | DURABLE2xxx          | Diagnostics that are reported when an activity is called using wrong parameters.                                                                                                           |   |   |

Author: done :)

    DiagnosticResult expected = VerifyCS
                                    .Diagnostic(MatchingInputOutputTypeActivityAnalyzer.InputArgumentTypeMismatchDiagnosticId)
                                    .WithArguments("something");

    // asserts that the diagnostic is reported
    await VerifyCS.VerifyDurableTaskAnalyzerAsync(code, expected);
}
```

For additional details on how to test an analyzer, please see [this tutorial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/roslyn-sdk/tutorials/how-to-write-csharp-analyzer-code-fix#build-unit-tests).

## Manual Testing

Any of the [samples projects](../../samples/) in this repository can be used for manual testing and validation.

You can just add a project reference to `..\..\src\Analyzers\Analyzers.csproj`:

```xml
  <ItemGroup>
    <ProjectReference Include="..\..\src\Analyzers\Analyzers.csproj" OutputItemType="Analyzer" ReferenceOutputAssembly="false" />
  </ItemGroup>
```

> When using Visual Studio, you may need to restart the IDE, since analyzers and code fixers are usually loaded and cached during start up.
Be aware of this behavior when developing new features as well.

### Debugging

> Although debugging the unit tests are a great way to inspect an analyzer internal state,
> it can be useful to attach a debugger to one the samples projects mentioned above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although debugging the unit tests is a great way to inspect an analyzer's internal state,
it can be useful to attach a debugger to one of the samples projects mentioned above.
```

In order to do that, go to the specific analyzer you want to debug and add the following lines to its `Initialize` method:

```cs
using System.Diagnostics;
...

[DiagnosticAnalyzer(LanguageNames.CSharp)]
public class YourAnalyzer : DiagnosticAnalyzer
{
    public override void Initialize(AnalysisContext context)
    {
        if (!Debugger.IsAttached)
        {
            Debugger.Launch();
        }
    ...
    }
}
```

Then, re-build the solution. You should be able to select an IDE/Debugger and start debugging using breakpoints, etc.

> This method [only works on Windows](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.debugger.launch?view=net-8.0).

## Deprecating Analyzers/Code Fixers

> From time to time roslyn Analyzers can become stale, if the analysis they perform is not valid anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From time to time, Roslyn Analyzers can become stale, if the analysis they perform is not valid anymore.
```
